---
published: true
layout: post
categories:
  - econ481
tags:
  - environment
  - resource
title: ECON 481 Chapter 2
category:
  - econ481
---



2016 fall Kennedy: Environmental Economics 2

## 2. THE EQUILIBRIUM PRICE EFFECTS OF POLLUTION POLICY


### 2.1 THE MODEL
Recall our simple model of a single price-taking firm from section 1.7 in Chapter 1.
There are two key elements of that model. The first is the relationship between emissions
and output:
(2.1) e = (1− x) y
The second is the production-cost function:


(2.2)
γ
(1 2 ) 2 c( y, x) x y +
=
where γ ≥ 0 is a production-cost parameter. We now extend that model to one with
multiple firms, where γ is idiosyncratic.



Output is homogeneous and
aggregate demand is
(2.3) Q( p) = a .bp
where a > 0 and b > 0 .

We begin by deriving the market equilibrium in the absence of regulation. This will serve
as a template for solving the more complicated problem when emissions are constrained.
Moreover, the solution that we later derive for aggregate abatement cost can be usefully
expressed in terms of the unregulated equilibrium values, so it is helpful to derive those
first.

### 2.2 MARKET EQUILIBRIUM WITHOUT REGULATION


#### Equilibrium Market Surplus
Market surplus is the sum of aggregate profit and consumer surplus. Aggregate profit is
simply equal to the sum of individual profits:


$$ MS = Π +  CS $$


#### A Complication: Free Entry and the Number of Firms


The size of β in this example captures the extent to which firms differ.


In the limit as β →∞ , all firms are identical and Ω →α .


### 2.7-1 Market Equilibrium with a Pollution Tax

- b 代表了需求方的弹性。
- ϕ 代表了供给方的弹性。

Note the
role of b and ϕ as determinants of this rate of increase. A high value of b means that
demand is highly responsive to price so a smaller fraction of the tax is passed on to
consumers as a price increase. Conversely, a high value of ϕ means that supply is very
responsive to price (because marginal cost of production is relatively flat) so a larger
fraction of the tax is passed on to consumers via a price increase.


### 2.7-2 The Incidence of a Pollution Tax

_The Impact on Consumers_

_The Impact on Firms_

t0 is a critical value of the tax rate at which profits are just unchanged by the application of
the tax

收税，也有意外的效果，能起到减少产量，类似于垄断到效果。企业firm的利润，反而可能增加。







